What is Turbidity in Liquid?

Turbidity is the degree or level of cloudiness or haziness of a liquid. This happens due to the presence of large numbers of invisible particles 
(with the naked eye) similar to white smoke in the air. When light passes through liquids, light waves get scattered Due to the presence of these 
tiny particles. The turbidity of a liquid is directly proportional to the free suspended particles that is if the number of particles increases 
turbidity will also increase as shown in fig(turbidity in liquid).

How to Measure Turbidity? 

Turbidity happens due to the scattering of light waves, in order to measure the turbidity, we should measure the scattering of light. Turbidity is usually measured in 
nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) or Jackson turbidity units (JTLJ), depending on the method used for measurement. The two units are roughly equal.The turbidity sensor 
has two parts, transmitter and Receiver. The transmitter consists of a light source typically an led and a driver circuit. In the receiver end, there is a light detector 
like a photodiode or an LDR. We place the solution in between the transmitter and receiver as shown in fig(Turbidity sensor working).

Overview of Turbidity Sensor

Turbidity sensor module comes with 3 parts. A waterproof lead, a driver circuit, and a connecting wire. The testing probe consists of both the transmitter and receiver.

he above image shows, this type of module uses an IR diode as a light source and an IR receiver as a detector. But the working principle is the same as before. The driver
part (shown below) consists of an op-amp and some components which amplify the detected light signal as shown in fig(overview of Turbidity sensor).

The actual sensor can be connected to this module by using a JST XH connector. It has three pins, VCC, ground, and output. Vcc connects to the 5v and ground to ground. The
output of this module is an analog value that is it changes according to the light intensity as shown in fig(Turbidity sensor driver).

Specification:

•	Operating Voltage: 5V DC
•	Operating Current: 40mA (MAX)
•	Response Time: <500ms
•	Insulation Resistance: 100M (Min)
•	Output Method:
o	Analog output: 0-4.5V
o	Digital Output: High/Low level signal (you can adjust the threshold value by adjusting the potentiometer)
•	Operating Temperature: 5℃~90℃
•	Storage Temperature: -10℃~90℃
•	Weight: 30g
•	Adapter Dimensions: 38mm*28mm*10mm/1.5inches *1.1inches*0.4inches

Interface Description:

i.	"D/A" Output Signal Switch
ii.	"A": Analog Signal Output, the output value will decrease when in liquids with a high turbidity
iii.	"D": Digital Signal Output, high and low levels, which can be adjusted by the threshold potentiometer

Threshold Potentiometer: you can change the trigger condition by adjusting the threshold potentiometer in digital signal mode.

Relation Between Turbidity and Voltage:

Relationship graph is only applicable if the sensor gives out 4.2 V roughly at zero turbidity (clear water), and it’s only true within the range of 2.5 V to 4.2 V 
(3,000 to 0 turbidity).




