A pH sensor helps to measure the acidity or alkalinity of the water with a value between 0-14. When the pH value dips below seven, the water starts to become more acidic. 
Any number above seven equates to more alkaline and when the pH is equal to 7 then the solution is neutral.

The standard methodology for measuring pH:
pH meters consist of a glass electrode made of a specialty glass membrane that is sealed at the end forming a bulb. Inside the glass is an internal standard acidity solution, 
usually 0.1 M HCl, along with an internal reference electrode, REin (typically an Ag/AgCl wire electrode). This solution is called the reference solution of known pH, 7.
A second electrode REext is placed in an external tube immersed in KCl. This external tube forms a concentric enclosure around the first enclosed glass tube containing the 0.1 M
HCl (the internal tube).
The external tube is made of pH-sensitive glass and is in contact with the test solution through an opening called a porous diaphragm. The inclusion of a reference electrode
encased by the internal tube is necessary as its pH is known and can be compared to a test solution so that its pH value can be determined. This set-up is called a combination
pH electrode.


Working of PH Sensor:
The pH meter operates like a voltmeter. The pair of electrodes in the combinatorial set-up can measure small changes in voltage (also called potential difference) in the order
of millivolts. Changes in potentials are caused by the loss of electrons that correspond with the loss of H+.
The voltage produced by the test solution is measured and compared with the voltage produced by the reference solution which is exposed to the test solution via the porous
diaphragm. The difference in the voltage between the two is used to calculate the pH:
                                                                                    E=E(const)-del.Em
E(const) refers to the potential difference of the reference electrode and DEm is the change in the potential difference of the external glass membrane caused by the external
test solution and internal KCl solution. DEm can be calculated using the Nernst Equation.

Calibration:
The pH meter should be calibrated before each measurement using at least two standard buffer solutions of known pH values (typically around 4 and 7).

